(05:00:13 PM) segfault: meeting time
(05:00:54 PM) segfault: i can take a role, notetaker preferrably
(05:01:58 PM) sajolida: hi
(05:01:58 PM) sajolida: i wanted to take notes this time :)
(05:01:58 PM) masha: who's here for the meeting?
(05:01:58 PM) masha: I do
(05:02:00 PM) segfault: who is here for the meeting? drwhax, alant, emmapeel, geb, gibi masha, muri, sajolida, u
(05:02:11 PM) sajolida: me!
(05:02:23 PM) segfault: *kibi
(05:03:05 PM) segfault: who wants to take a role?
(05:03:16 PM) sajolida: i'm taking notes
(05:03:30 PM) segfault: ok, then I can be the facilitator
(05:03:51 PM) masha: cool
(05:04:11 PM) sajolida: so it's the three of us: segfault, masha, sajolida?
(05:04:15 PM) segfault: should we wait 2 more minutes for more people to show up?
(05:04:24 PM) masha: emmapeel:?
(05:04:48 PM) masha: (I have some ~ 5s delay between typing and words landing on the chan)
(05:05:41 PM) sajolida: 17:05:40
(05:05:47 PM) sajolida: not me :)
(05:05:57 PM) sajolida: maybe restart Tor?
(05:06:25 PM) segfault: ok, lets start
(05:06:33 PM) masha: let's see if it's an issue afterward
(05:06:34 PM) segfault: anyone want to take hole in the roof tickets? https://labs.riseup.net/code/versions/198
(05:06:40 PM) masha: not me
(05:06:53 PM) segfault: me neither, too much other things to do
(05:07:15 PM) ***sajolida checks the list...
(05:07:50 PM) sajolida: in April we made progress on #6907: the ball is now on the side of the PO plugin's upstream \o/
(05:07:51 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #6907: ikiwiki po plugin does not play well with inline directives https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/6907
(05:08:07 PM) masha: yeah
(05:08:07 PM) segfault: sajolida: cool!
(05:08:16 PM) sajolida: i'm not sure #8447 qualifies as hole in the roof
(05:08:22 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #8447: Persistent data is not erased when persistence features are disabled https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/8447
(05:08:33 PM) segfault: do you want to discuss that now?
(05:09:18 PM) sajolida: otherwise i would argue that #10976 is waaaay more important
(05:09:19 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #10976: persistence.conf lost, recoverable by reconfiguring https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/10976
(05:09:33 PM) masha: yeap I agree
(05:10:07 PM) sajolida: i'm not sure #12146 qualifies as hole in the roof anymore now that our proposal for USB images is almost approved
(05:10:08 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #12146: Tails installed using dd is not seen as a bootable device on MacBook Pro https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12146
(05:10:15 PM) segfault: I remember that we had a discussion about what "hole in the roof" meant some months ago. I don't remember the outcome, but I know that at least there was an argument that it is not "very important tickets"
(05:10:43 PM) sajolida: we reached no conclusion
(05:10:48 PM) segfault: ah
(05:11:30 PM) segfault: then maybe lets have this discussion when the people who had opinions about that are here, which includes at least sajolida and intrigeri IIRC
(05:11:41 PM) sajolida: i'm starting to think that almost all tickets that we currently have in this category might not really fit in there
(05:11:55 PM) sajolida: but yes... i don't want to discuss this in depth now :)
(05:12:13 PM) segfault: ok, then next topic: Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee
(05:12:19 PM) segfault: I don't know how to prepare the link for that
(05:12:22 PM) segfault: sajolida?
(05:12:53 PM) sajolida: i'll try!
(05:13:07 PM) ***segfault is also trying
(05:13:40 PM) segfault: how about this? https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&set_filter=1&f%5B%5D=status_id&op%5Bstatus_id%5D=o&f%5B%5D=fixed_version_id&op%5Bfixed_version_id%5D=%3D&v%5Bfixed_version_id%5D%5B%5D=303&f%5B%5D=assigned_to_id&op%5Bassigned_to_id%5D=%21*&f%5B%5D=&available_columns%5B%5D=fixed_version&c%5B%5D=tracker&c%5B%5D=status&c%5B%5D=priority&c%5B%5D=subject&c%5B%5D=author&c%5B%5D=assigned_to&c%5B%5D=updated_on&c%5B%5D=cf_9&group_by=&t%5B%5D=
(05:14:14 PM) sajolida: https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&set_filter=1&f%5B%5D=fixed_version_id&op%5Bfixed_version_id%5D=%3D&v%5Bfixed_version_id%5D%5B%5D=303&f%5B%5D=status_id&op%5Bstatus_id%5D=%3D&v%5Bstatus_id%5D%5B%5D=1&v%5Bstatus_id%5D%5B%5D=9&v%5Bstatus_id%5D%5B%5D=7&f%5B%5D=assigned_to_id&op%5Bassigned_to_id%5D=%21*&f%5B%5D=&c%5B%5D=priority&c%5B%5D=subject&c%5B%5D=category&c%5B%5D=cf_15&c%5B%5D=assigned_to&c%5B%5D=cf_9&group_by=status&t%5B%5D=
(05:14:37 PM) sajolida: these are two:
(05:14:37 PM) ***emmapeel is back
(05:14:39 PM) sajolida: #15461
(05:14:40 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #15461: The homepage of the Unsafe Browser cannot be translated https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15461
(05:14:47 PM) sajolida: #7439
(05:14:48 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #7439: Decide whether to remove the "clock synchronization" notification https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/7439
(05:16:00 PM) segfault: the first one seems to be blocked by #14962 which has an assignee (sajolida)
(05:16:00 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #14962: Tor Browser >= 7.0.8 fails to render local pages correctly - Tails - RiseupLabs Code Repository https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/14962
(05:16:03 PM) sajolida: #15461 is blocked by #14962 which is on my place... hmm... honestly i don't think this will be fixed in time for 3.7
(05:16:04 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #15461: The homepage of the Unsafe Browser cannot be translated https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15461
(05:16:09 PM) sajolida: help is welcome!
(05:16:31 PM) masha: I won't commit to anything
(05:16:34 PM) sajolida: #7439
(05:16:35 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #7439: Decide whether to remove the "clock synchronization" notification https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/7439
(05:16:54 PM) sajolida: i put the version to 3.7 while it was on my plate but i don't think we should target 3.7 for that → i'm dropping the version :)
(05:16:55 PM) segfault: I can take a look at it later, and see if I can help, but don't take that as a commitment
(05:16:57 PM) emmapeel: lets look at that one
(05:17:33 PM) segfault: take a look at #15461 I meant
(05:17:34 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Bug #15461: The homepage of the Unsafe Browser cannot be translated https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/15461
(05:17:52 PM) sajolida: segfault: that's great!
(05:17:53 PM) sajolida: no pressure
(05:18:05 PM) emmapeel: but  #15461 is blocked by #14962 which is on  sajolida's plate
(05:18:18 PM) sajolida: #14962 is the root cause of so many problems!!!
(05:18:20 PM) emmapeel: ah ok
(05:18:25 PM) segfault: right, I meant take a look at #14962
(05:18:37 PM) emmapeel: ah cool
(05:18:57 PM) sajolida: it's a bug in Tor Browser and Tor said they needed help from Mozilla not to fuck things up while fixing it :(
(05:18:57 PM) emmapeel: yeah i hate that one too
(05:18:57 PM) emmapeel: makes me install firefox-esr
(05:19:32 PM) segfault: I don't want to work on #7439 in time for 3.7
(05:19:33 PM) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #7439: Decide whether to remove the "clock synchronization" notification https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/7439
(05:19:33 PM) segfault: anyone else?
(05:19:37 PM) sajolida: i don't like installing firefox-esr either but to me it looks like the least problem caused by #14962 :)
(05:20:22 PM) sajolida: i assigned #7439 while it was on my plate and needed discussion, but now i removed the target version :) was assigned to 3.7 while it needed discussion
(05:20:35 PM) sajolida: oops! s/was assigned to 3.7 while it needed discussion//
(05:20:45 PM) emmapeel: maybe #7439 can be discussed in tails-ux
(05:20:56 PM) segfault: ah sorry, I thought that was about the other ticket
(05:20:59 PM) segfault: ok, next topic then
(05:21:14 PM) segfault: Availability and plans until the next meeting
(05:21:52 PM) emmapeel: tidying up my work in add software docs, and back to weblate. also frontdesk
(05:22:26 PM) emmapeel: and the garden
(05:22:41 PM) segfault: I will be mostly available and continue working on the VeraCrypt support (which made a lot of progress by the way), and on Tails Server, in case that anonym makes progress with the review
(05:22:58 PM) u: ohai!
(05:23:03 PM) u: did not look at the time.
(05:23:04 PM) segfault: hi u
(05:23:19 PM) segfault: we are currently at "Availability and plans until the next meeting"
(05:23:46 PM) segfault: i'll be right back
(05:23:54 PM) masha: no plans concerning Tails until next meeting
(05:24:04 PM) u: i'm available ~ half time
(05:24:05 PM) sajolida: Availability: Hopefully some days in the mountains of between May 14 and 18. Otherwise pretty much here but busy with tons of stuff already.
Plans: Finish the user testing and documentation of Additional Software. Catch us with a bunch of travel reimbursements. Core work as usual.
(05:24:32 PM) u: currently on vacation for some days until tomorrow.
(05:25:19 PM) segfault: cool, I hope you enjoys your vacations. I'm really looking forward to my vacation between June 2 and 9 :)
(05:25:35 PM) segfault: anything else?
(05:25:39 PM) sajolida: segfault: still aiming at June 1 for the beta?
(05:25:44 PM) masha: not for me
(05:25:47 PM) emmapeel: please add your bits for the monthly report
(05:26:11 PM) segfault: sajolida: I guess
(05:26:18 PM) segfault: lets discuss that in our team meeting
(05:26:21 PM) sajolida: cool! good luck with that"
(05:26:23 PM) sajolida: !
(05:26:24 PM) Tailsbot: Command "" not found.
(05:26:27 PM) u: i should report on the duckduckgo challenge
(05:26:43 PM) u: we won ~33k$ plus some donations!
(05:26:52 PM) segfault: u: awesome!
(05:27:12 PM) u: but i have to read some emails to see if everything arrived in our bank account yet
(05:27:32 PM) masha: cool, nice job
(05:27:34 PM) sajolida: (as of yesterday: no)
(05:28:06 PM) segfault: I don't think I have something to add to the monthly report
(05:28:10 PM) segfault: next topic?
(05:28:33 PM) u: sajolida: ack.
(05:28:53 PM) emmapeel: yo segfault after the meeting you can make me a resume about progress in veracrypt support and i will add it
(05:29:28 PM) masha: what next topic?
(05:29:30 PM) segfault: emmapeel: I'm not sure its worth it. there will be something in the next report about the beta I guess
(05:29:38 PM) emmapeel: okok
(05:29:44 PM) sajolida: masha: « Important missing bits in the next monthly report. »
(05:29:44 PM) spriver entered the room.
(05:29:45 PM) sajolida: i've written my bits
(05:29:56 PM) sajolida: help desk too
(05:30:04 PM) sajolida: maybe u hasn't read it yet and has something to add...
(05:30:19 PM) sajolida: https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_report/report_2018_04/
(05:30:24 PM) emmapeel: i added a workshp in mexico :D
(05:30:24 PM) segfault: u already wrote about reporting the donations
(05:30:24 PM) masha: then we done with this meeting?
(05:30:48 PM) segfault: masha: no, we have one topic to discuss
(05:30:53 PM) sajolida: yeap
(05:30:59 PM) segfault: if we are done with the missing bits in the next report
(05:31:06 PM) u: looks good to me :)
(05:31:09 PM) segfault: ok, then the next topic is: Gather comments on our draft personas
(05:31:21 PM) u: link?
(05:31:27 PM) segfault: who prepared that? there is no ticket
(05:31:34 PM) segfault: but a link to the blueprint: https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/personas/#kim
(05:31:36 PM) u: sajolida i guess :)
(05:31:37 PM) sajolida: i prepared the discussion, so let's me explain
(05:31:49 PM) sajolida: there's an explanation on the monthly meeting blueprint:
(05:31:53 PM) sajolida: Gather comments on our draft personas
(05:32:23 PM) segfault: ok, lets read that then: https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_meeting/
(05:32:37 PM) sajolida: please everyone read my explanation and tell me when you're ready!
(05:34:41 PM) segfault: I read it, but am still laughing about the last example
(05:34:48 PM) sajolida: that's fine :)
(05:34:50 PM) u: « I won't be able to work with a persona named Kim because of I have daily nightmares involving Kim Jong-un. »
(05:34:55 PM) u: huhu :p
(05:35:21 PM) sajolida: anyway, now please go ahead and read the draft we have for Kim, the surveilled at home
(05:36:02 PM) emmapeel: kim would have liked windows camouflage
(05:36:04 PM) sajolida: since we won't have real discussions today, feel free to comment as you read and not necessarily wait for everybody to be ready
(05:36:10 PM) sajolida: emmapeel: great!
(05:36:14 PM) u: "that has been institutionalized" -> do you mean s/he has been in psychiatry ?
(05:36:38 PM) emmapeel: sajolida: remember alison said that about a guy on a half-way house?
(05:36:38 PM) kibi: :)
(05:36:50 PM) sajolida: emmapeel: yeap, i'll ask her more info
(05:37:04 PM) sajolida: u: i think so :) jaster wrote that while we were together...
(05:37:24 PM) masha: I dislike the "Kim wants to feel normal", I'd rather put "feel safe"
(05:37:40 PM) emmapeel: 'blend in'
(05:37:52 PM) sajolida: oops, the layout of "goals" is screwed up...
(05:39:00 PM) sajolida: ok! can you elaborate just a little bit?
(05:39:18 PM) masha: me?
(05:39:47 PM) sajolida: masha: yes, please (only if you want)
(05:39:54 PM) spriver: hi
(05:39:58 PM) emmapeel: i think in this context institutionalized could also be on an orphanage
(05:40:15 PM) u: ack emmapeel
(05:40:36 PM) sajolida: the idea is that Kim has been institutionalized because their are gay, not orphan (but we could change that)
(05:40:38 PM) emmapeel: i think also maybe kim could do with some bitcoin wallet :D
(05:40:50 PM) sajolida: emmapeel: what for?
(05:41:04 PM) emmapeel: but the gay kids go on the streets and they get institutionalized
(05:41:20 PM) emmapeel: its on my private idaho
(05:41:36 PM) emmapeel: to have his own savings outside of the institution
(05:41:42 PM) masha: well, when you're queer of color, you're not "normal" and the world reminds you every day, so what you want is the end of homophobia/racism for example. And the "want to be normal" might merge with being invisible, and put everything too queer being closed doors.
(05:42:05 PM) sajolida: masha: thanks for the extra explanation!
(05:42:18 PM) emmapeel: specially if kim is underage, they are not going to let him handle his savings
(05:42:34 PM) sajolida: emmapeel: the idea here is to rather focus on the goals of the persona (has some savings outside the institution) than on the software feature (have a bitcoin wallet)
(05:42:45 PM) emmapeel: ok
(05:42:49 PM) masha: maybe the point is that "normal" leaves way too much room for interpretation
(05:42:58 PM) u: sajolida: i think the Kim persona sounds very stressful (limited time, mentor surveillance...). and surveilled at home can be much less extreme than this case.
(05:43:07 PM) sajolida: notetaker: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/My_Own_Private_Idaho
(05:43:20 PM) u: but all other points i agree with
(05:43:23 PM) sajolida: masha: ack!
(05:43:42 PM) sajolida: u: how could we make it a bit less stessful?
(05:44:09 PM) sajolida: (drafting situations that are too extreme might be counterproductive indeed)
(05:44:10 PM) u: sajolida: but it's just a remark, and i wonder, what would be similarities for example with people who live with their abuser 
(05:45:16 PM) u: sajolida: i think for example the fact that the computer room is crowded is an extra stress factor which we could make a bit less extreme by writing "the computer room is sometimes croweded"
(05:45:16 PM) sajolida: do you think we should replace Kim by someone who lives with their abuser?
(05:45:50 PM) sajolida: u: an option would be to add that they sometimes also borrow the computer of a trusted friend inside the institution
(05:45:56 PM) emmapeel: kim is on the institution right now, right?
(05:46:01 PM) sajolida: emmapeel: yea
(05:46:09 PM) u: Kim's case has two angles: the surveillance at home by mentors and peers, and the sharia in nigeria as well as internet censorship
(05:46:29 PM) emmapeel: u: yeah
(05:46:30 PM) u: sajolida: that could be an option (trusted friend's computer)
(05:46:56 PM) emmapeel: if kim has no computer, and uses a computer of a friend, is good to have tails...
(05:47:06 PM) sajolida: emmapeel: that's the point
(05:47:24 PM) u: sajolida: so kim's case actually has three angles and if we would replace kim by someone who lives with their abuser, there would not be the whole censorship and legal part
(05:47:35 PM) sajolida: anybody with useful resources to understand Kim better? links? books? research? people to interview?
(05:48:02 PM) masha: nope
(05:48:39 PM) u: sajolida: maybe we could have two personas out of kim?
(05:48:39 PM) u: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LGBT_rights_in_Nigeria
(05:49:01 PM) sajolida: u: what would be the core of the two personas you would like to create?
(05:49:08 PM) sajolida: http://internetfreedom.secondmuse.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/if_ugandaLGBT_Final.pdf
(05:49:20 PM) u: http://the-ipf.com/2016/06/09/homosexuality-nigeria-young-lgbt/
(05:49:33 PM) segfault: I read the section about Kim, and I like your work, but I don't find anything to add. I don't know anything about the situation of gay youth in Nigeria
(05:49:51 PM) segfault: I have to go in 3 minutes
(05:49:59 PM) u: sajolida: i could imagine to have one person who is either institutionalized or living with their abuser and one gay youth in nigeria, but not necessarily under surveillance at home
(05:50:42 PM) segfault: the meeting will be over after this topic, so I guess it should be fine if I leave early
(05:50:46 PM) u: but it's just a proposal and I'm not 100% convinced we should do that.
(05:50:48 PM) sajolida: segfault: sure!
(05:50:50 PM) emmapeel: but if you are instutionalised, you are surveilled....
(05:50:58 PM) sajolida: it's the last point in the agenda, so feel free to leave at any time
(05:51:14 PM) emmapeel: by the institution at least
(05:51:27 PM) sajolida: segfault: and thanks a lot for your facilitation of the meeting. i think it was the first time and you did great :)
(05:51:54 PM) segfault: thanks
(05:52:08 PM) u: ciao segfault
(05:52:22 PM) sajolida: u: if we keep a gay youth in Nigeria who is not instituationalized, their issues would be censorship circumvention, State surveillance, and identity management, right?
(05:52:23 PM) emmapeel: yeah god luck with your mess!!
(05:52:40 PM) u: sajolida: yes
(05:52:56 PM) u: sajolida: i actually think we had this discussion at a summit already
(05:52:57 PM) sajolida: then it would look very much like Riou (sorry for the others who don't know who is Riou!)
(05:52:58 PM) emmapeel: yeah maybe he could have a blog....
(05:53:29 PM) segfault: ok, leaving now. thanks for the meeting
(05:53:32 PM) segfault left the room (Stream reset by peer).
(05:53:38 PM) u: agreed sajolida
(05:53:40 PM) sajolida: but maybe you're right and we should refocus Kim to be more strongly about surveillance at home and not so much about other things as well
(05:53:52 PM) u: sajolida: yes.. :)
(05:54:06 PM) u: we can think about that.. we dont have to aree on this today
(05:54:17 PM) sajolida: so remove their societal and State oppression and stick to the domestic oppression
(05:54:31 PM) sajolida: yes! we'll only brainstorming and i'll take notes from all this
(05:54:38 PM) sajolida: s/we'll/we're/
(05:54:41 PM) alant left the room (Connection failed: connection closed).
(05:54:58 PM) emmapeel: i just want to say that a very high percentage of homeless youth in the world is queer. they get kicked out from home for being queer
(05:55:09 PM) alant entered the room.
(05:55:26 PM) u: sajolida: ack
(05:55:28 PM) spriver: ack
(05:55:30 PM) u: that's it from me :)
(05:56:27 PM) sajolida: Kim could be gay in a super religious US family for example
(05:57:04 PM) sajolida: 4 minutes left :)
(05:57:14 PM) spriver: (how about transsexual, that'd be me)
(05:57:16 PM) sajolida: anything different to add to the brainstorming?
sajolida spriver 
(05:58:02 PM) sajolida: spriver: sure! would you prefer that?
(05:58:08 PM) emmapeel: yeah if you are trans you also have to get out
(05:58:13 PM) emmapeel: many times
(05:58:36 PM) spriver: sajolida: sure, i'd like it (: 
(05:58:42 PM) sajolida: :)
(05:58:53 PM) emmapeel: http://williamsinstitute.law.ucla.edu/wp-content/uploads/Durso-Gates-LGBT-Homeless-Youth-Survey-July-2012.pdf
(05:59:14 PM) sajolida: emmapeel: thanks!
(05:59:42 PM) kibi left the room (Machine going to sleep).
(06:00:02 PM) u: sajolida, spriver: fine with me, yes, gay/trans in a religious family in any fanatic religious family.
(06:00:27 PM) sajolida: spriver: any online ressources about young transsexual being surveilled at home?
(06:00:45 PM) sajolida: stories, studies, contacts, etc.
(06:01:22 PM) masha: (had some internet disconnect)
(06:01:30 PM) spriver: sajolida: not in particular, I can share a bit of my story though
(06:01:49 PM) sajolida: masha: do you miss anything in the backlog?
(06:01:54 PM) sajolida: spriver: sure!
(06:02:14 PM) masha: sajolida: not I got it
(06:02:17 PM) sajolida: (but not now, i'd like to do this in person if you agree)
(06:02:27 PM) spriver: sajolida: cool with me (:
(06:02:48 PM) sajolida: time is up
(06:02:57 PM) masha: bye then
(06:02:59 PM) sajolida: i'm happy to stick around if some of you have more comments on Kim
(06:03:03 PM) sajolida: otherwise see you around :)
(06:03:38 PM) emmapeel: please keep Kim queer!
(06:03:42 PM) emmapeel: :D
(06:03:49 PM) sajolida: emmapeel: will do! :)
(06:04:29 PM) sajolida: by the way our idea is to make them all queer in a way: have gender neutral pronouns and pictures :)
(06:05:16 PM) u: (sajolida: side note: please see my email on -summit)
(06:05:23 PM) sajolida: without making them all explicitely trans, we like the idea to prevent gender bias
(06:05:27 PM) u: (sent some minutes ago)
(06:05:30 PM) sajolida: u: tomorrow?
(06:05:37 PM) u: sure sure
(06:06:11 PM) u: sajolida: just dont send what you proposed to send because i don't agree fully and i would like to have more opinions on what i proposed :)
(06:06:23 PM) sajolida: ok
(06:06:52 PM) u: thanks!
(06:06:59 PM) u: no more comments on kim
(06:07:01 PM) sajolida: see you folks!
(06:11:35 PM) u: see you!
