[[!meta title="April 2018 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Meta

- Attendees: anonym, drebs, emmapeel, intrigeri, nodens, segfault, singuliere, spriver, u

- No logs.

# Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month

Nobody.

# Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee

There was none.

# Availability and plans until the next meeting

* anonym:
  - Availability: office hours CEST, will be present online during the
    last week of April but intends to work on other things than Tails.
  - Plans: start working on my VeraCrypt deliverables (test suite only)
    and lots of stuff that is hard to summarize because it is so varied
* intrigeri:
  - Availability: mostly around first half of the month, mostly afk
    2nd half.
  - Plans: some progress on #11834 (including some with groente),
    prepare the many Tails/Tor things that will happen at CryptoRave,
    bootstrap Foundations Team v2 â€” and as usual: try to not let the
    daily backlog of core work prevent me from doing the above.
* drebs:
  - Plans: helping with translation platform #10038 and #15359 and
    #10037, would like to help have weblate updated in lizard and more
    deps listed and packaged until next month. also helping with tails
    workshop and intro talk during cryptorave in brasil next month.
* emmapeel:
  - Plans: will keep dealing with the backlog of 3 busy frontdesk weeks and
    redmine, plus translation platform and some translators she met in valencia
    (chinese - mainland and taiwan/arabic)
* nodens:
  - Availibility: low.
  - Plans: Will continue to advance on openpgp-applet if he finds the
    time (there is the issue of checking if AppIndicators is the  way to
    go, especially since work on dbus + gnome-shell extension has
    already been done
* segfault:
  - Availability: mostly available
  - Plans: continue working on VeraCrypt stuff and Tails Server
* singuliere:
  - Availabily: uncertain
  - Plans: will explore contributions to the translation platform
* spriver:
  - Availability: still in the process of getting actually more things done.
  - Plans: currently working a bit on German translations, working again on #10181
    and #10181
* u:
  - Availability: low besides usual commitments
  - Plans: working on Debian things for Tails (migration to salsa+
    updates), on the translation platform (good progress with hefee <3)
    and still taking care of the
    https://www.crowdrise.com/duckduckgoprivacychallenge

# Important missing bits in the next monthly report

The SponsorW bits are missing. Segfault confirmed he'll add his bits, u
sent an email to other people involved.
